README.md, before:

NBCLab Environment Setup
======

Environment Setup
-----------------

### 1. Get a [Github](https://github.com/) account

### 2. [Set up](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/) Git on HPC
Perform steps 2-4 in **Setting up Git**.

### 3. Set up your ssh [key](https://help.github.com/articles/generating-ssh-keys/)!
- Remember to make your passkey easy to remember (you will be typing it a lot)
- Follow steps 1 & 2 in 'github:help'.

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_dsa.pub
```

or

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

 - Copy the key to your github account settings --> SSH Keys --> add SSH key
### 4. Modify your ~/.ssh/config file using nano
 1. Test if SSH over the HTTPS port is possible. Run this SSH command:

```bash
ssh -T -p 443 git@ssh.github.com
```

You should see:

> Hi username! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access.

- Enable SSH connections over HTTPS

```bash
nano ~/.ssh/config
```

Add the following lines:  
> Host github.com  
> Hostname ssh.github.com  
> Port 443  

### 5. Fork the [nbclab-env](https://github.com/NBCLab/nbclab-env) repository.
- In a terminal: 

```bash
cd place/to/keep/repository
git clone ssh://git@github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git
cd nbclab-env
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git
```

### 6. Change repo configuration to ssh
- Open .git/config
- find url= entry under section [remote "origin"]
- Change it from url=https://github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git
to ssh://git@github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git


### 7. Symlink .projects to your home directory
- In a terminal:
```bash
ln -s /place/of/repository/.projects ~/
```

### 8. Modify .bashrc to source .projects and show environment name
- Add in:
```bash
source ~/.projects

prompt1="\[\e[1;39m\]\u@\h:\W\$\[\e[0m\]"
PROMPT_COMMAND='PS1="\[\e[1;37m\e[44m\]${project_name}\[\e[0;0m\]${prompt1} "'
```



## Examples

### 1. Set your project environment to the ADHD project:

```bash
adhd_env
```

You should see your prompt say "[ADHD]". Create a pointer to the nbclab-env repository for the latest project environments:

```bash
cd /place/of/repository
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/master
```

### 2. Create a new environment

1. Create environment folder in project folder (e.g. /home/data/nbc/adhd/adhd/**envs**/).
2. Copy example bash_environment from nbclab-env folder to project environment folder.
3. Edit bash_environment with project-specific settings (specify versions of FSL, AFNI, SPM, etc.). Make sure it source activates the right miniconda environment (which you'll set up in the next step).
4. Copy example generate_miniconda_env.sh to project environment folder.
5. Edit generate_miniconda_env.sh with project-specific settings (specify which Python modules you'll need and which version of each). Also make sure paths point to project environment folder.
6. Run generate_miniconda_env.sh.
7. You should now have Python and bash environments for your project! Now just add the necessary info to the nbclab-env repository so everyone can use them (via .projects).

### 3. Add an environment to nbclab-env

- To add an environment to the nbclab-env repository, make a separate environment shell script in the .env (called .my_project_environment in the example) in the nbclab-env repository folder. Then edit the .projects file to add a function:

```bash
function my_project_env()
{
source /place/of/project/envs/bash_environment
}
```

- Commit and push the file up to your repository

```bash
cd /place/of/nbclab-env/repo
git add .env/.my_project_environment
git add .projects
git commit -m "added my project's environment"
git push origin master
```

- Test and send a pull request to nbclab/nbclab-env for someone else to review and merge your changes.



## GIT Tutorials
Here are some great GIT tutorials:  
- [NYUCCL](http://nyuccl.org/pages/gittutorial/)  
- [FPerez](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/fperez/reprosw/blob/master/Version%20Control.ipynb)
- [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn) (interactive)

Commit message:

Update README with MKL license information.

README.md, after:

NBCLab Environment Setup
======

Environment Setup
-----------------

### 1. Get a [Github](https://github.com/) account

### 2. [Set up](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/) Git on HPC
Perform steps 2-4 in **Setting up Git**.

### 3. Set up your ssh [key](https://help.github.com/articles/generating-ssh-keys/)!
- Remember to make your passkey easy to remember (you will be typing it a lot)
- Follow steps 1 & 2 in 'github:help'.

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_dsa.pub
```

or

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

 - Copy the key to your github account settings --> SSH Keys --> add SSH key
### 4. Modify your ~/.ssh/config file using nano
 1. Test if SSH over the HTTPS port is possible. Run this SSH command:

```bash
ssh -T -p 443 git@ssh.github.com
```

You should see:

> Hi username! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access.

- Enable SSH connections over HTTPS

```bash
nano ~/.ssh/config
```

Add the following lines:  
> Host github.com  
> Hostname ssh.github.com  
> Port 443  

### 5. Fork the [nbclab-env](https://github.com/NBCLab/nbclab-env) repository.
- In a terminal: 

```bash
cd place/to/keep/repository
git clone ssh://git@github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git
cd nbclab-env
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git
```

### 6. Change repo configuration to ssh
- Open .git/config
- find url= entry under section [remote "origin"]
- Change it from url=https://github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git
to ssh://git@github.com/nbclab/nbclab-env.git


### 7. Symlink .projects to your home directory
- In a terminal:
```bash
ln -s /place/of/repository/.projects ~/
```

### 8. Modify .bashrc to source .projects and show environment name
- Add in:
```bash
source ~/.projects

prompt1="\[\e[1;39m\]\u@\h:\W\$\[\e[0m\]"
PROMPT_COMMAND='PS1="\[\e[1;37m\e[44m\]${project_name}\[\e[0;0m\]${prompt1} "'
```

### 9. Download and add MKL license to your home folder
Nipype and other essential Python modules (e.g. numpy, scipy, scikit-learn) use Continuum Analytics' MKL optimization, which is proprietary and costs money. Fortunately, Continuum provides free academic researchers. Following is the process for obtaining a license and properly adding it to your home directory so you can use MKL-optimized modules.

1. Go to [this website](https://www.continuum.io/anaconda-academic-subscriptions-available) and sign up for an account. Then follow the instructions to download and organize a license.
2. The only note we want to make here is that, if you're using Safari, the license may download as an HTML document instead of a text document. Simply removing the .html extension will not fix this.
  - At the moment, the best way we know of to deal with this is to just download the license using a different web browser (Firefox works).

## Examples

### 1. Set your project environment to the ADHD project:

```bash
adhd_env
```

You should see your prompt say "[ADHD]". Create a pointer to the nbclab-env repository for the latest project environments:

```bash
cd /place/of/repository
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/master
```

### 2. Create a new environment

1. Create environment folder in project folder (e.g. /home/data/nbc/adhd/adhd/**envs**/).
2. Copy example bash_environment from nbclab-env folder to project environment folder.
3. Edit bash_environment with project-specific settings (specify versions of FSL, AFNI, SPM, etc.). Make sure it source activates the right miniconda environment (which you'll set up in the next step).
4. Copy example generate_miniconda_env.sh to project environment folder.
5. Edit generate_miniconda_env.sh with project-specific settings (specify which Python modules you'll need and which version of each). Also make sure paths point to project environment folder.
6. Run generate_miniconda_env.sh.
7. You should now have Python and bash environments for your project! Now just add the necessary info to the nbclab-env repository so everyone can use them (via .projects).

### 3. Add an environment to nbclab-env

- To add an environment to the nbclab-env repository, make a separate environment shell script in the .env (called .my_project_environment in the example) in the nbclab-env repository folder. Then edit the .projects file to add a function:

```bash
function my_project_env()
{
source /place/of/project/envs/bash_environment
}
```

- Commit and push the file up to your repository

```bash
cd /place/of/nbclab-env/repo
git add .env/.my_project_environment
git add .projects
git commit -m "added my project's environment"
git push origin master
```

- Test and send a pull request to nbclab/nbclab-env for someone else to review and merge your changes.



## GIT Tutorials
Here are some great GIT tutorials:  
- [NYUCCL](http://nyuccl.org/pages/gittutorial/)  
- [FPerez](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/fperez/reprosw/blob/master/Version%20Control.ipynb)
- [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn) (interactive)
